# *Readings: NODE.JS

## An Introduction to Node.js on sitepoint.com

1. What is node.js? Node.js is an event-based, non-blocking, asynchronous I/O runtime that uses Google’s V8 JavaScript engine and libuv library.
2. In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine? Node.s lets us to write Javascript code in our browser. 
3. What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime? We can use it to execute JavaScript on our computers
4. What is npm? A package manager that comes bundled with Node.
5. What version of node are you running on your machine? v18.11.0
6. What version of npm are you running on your machine? 8.19.2
7. What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’? npm install -g jshint
8. What is node used for? To automate the process of developing a modern JavaScript application

## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming

1. What are the 6 reasons for pair programming? Greater efficiency, Engaged collaboration, Learning from fellow students, Social skills, Job interview readiness, and work environment readiness.
2. In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial? Job interview readiness, engaged collaboration, learning from fellow students, and work environment readiness.
3. How does pair programming work? The Driver is the programmer who is typing and the only one whose hands are on the keyboard. Handling the “mechanics” of coding, the Driver manages the text editor, switching files, version control, and—of course writing—code. The Navigator uses their words to guide the Driver but does not provide any direct input to the computer. The Navigator thinks about the big picture, what comes next, how an algorithm might be converted in to code, while scanning for typos or bugs.

## References
https://www.sitepoint.com/an-introduction-to-node-js/
https://www.codefellows.org/blog/6-reasons-for-pair-programming/
