# *Readings: REST

## How I explained REST to my brother

1. Who is Roy Fielding? He helped write the first web servers, that sent documents across the internet… and then he did a ton of research explaining why the web works the way it does. His name is on the specification for the protocol that is used to get pages from servers to your browser.
2. Why don’t the techniques that we use today work well when we need to be able to talk to all of the machines in the world?
3. What is the HTTP protocol that Fielding and his friends created? It tells the browser what protocol to use. It is capable of describing the location of something anywhere in the world from anywhere in the world. It's the foundation of the web. You can think of it like GPS coordinates for knowledge and information.
4. What does a GET do? Ask for the human-readable "representation" of that data.
5. What does a POST do? Replace something in another system.
6. What does PUT do?  Creates a new resource or replaces a representation of the target resource with the request payload.
7. What does PATCH do? Partial modifications to a resource.

## Geocoding API

1. Did you get your API key? Yes.

## Weather Bit API

1. Did you get your API key? Yes.

## Yelp API Docs

1. Did you get your API key? Yes.

## The Movie DB API Docs

1. Did you get your API key? Yes.

## Reference
https://gist.github.com/brookr/5977550
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/PATCH#:~:text=The%20HTTP%20PATCH%20request%20method,how%20to%20modify%20a%20resource.
