# Read: Class 34 - API Deployment

## Configuring Django Settings: Best Practices

### Managing Django Settings: Issues

- Different environments. Usually, you have several environments: local, dev, ci, qa, staging, production, etc. Each environment can have its own specific settings (for example: DEBUG = True, more verbose logging, additional apps, some mocked data, etc.). You need an approach that allows you to keep all these Django setting configurations.

- Sensitive data. You have SECRET_KEY in each Django project. On top of this there can be DB passwords and tokens for third-party APIs like Amazon or Twitter. This data cannot be stored in VCS.

- Sharing settings between team members. You need a general approach to eliminate human error when working with the settings. For example, a developer may add a third-party app or some API integration and fail to add specific settings. On large (or even mid-size) projects, this can cause real issues.

- Django settings are a Python code. This is a curse and a blessing at the same time. It gives you a lot of flexibility, but can also be a problem – instead of key-value pairs, settings.py can have a very tricky logic.

### Setting Django Configurations: Different Approaches

- There is no built-in universal way to configure Django settings without hardcoding them. But books, open-source and work projects provide a lot of recommendations and approaches on how to do it best. Let’s take a brief look at the most popular ones to examine their weaknesses and strengths.

### settings_local.py

- This is the oldest method. I used it when I was configuring a Django project on a production server for the first time. I saw a lot of people use it back in the day, and I still see it now.

- The basic idea of this method is to extend all environment-specific settings in the settings_local.py file, which is ignored by VCS. Here’s an example:

#### settings.py file:

    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['example.com']
    DEBUG = False
    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql',
            'NAME': 'production_db',
            'USER': 'user',
            'PASSWORD': 'password',
            'HOST': 'db.example.com',
            'PORT': '5432',
            'OPTIONS': {
                'sslmode': 'require'
            }
        }
    }
    
    ...
    
    from .settings_local import *

#### settings_local.py file:
    
    ALLOWED_HOSTS = ['localhost']
    DEBUG = True
    DATABASES = {
        'default': {
            'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql',
            'NAME': 'local_db',
            'HOST': '127.0.0.1',
            'PORT': '5432',
        }
    }

#### Cited from: https://djangostars.com/blog/configuring-django-settings-best-practices/

## Things I want to know more about

- I want to know more about the process of configuring my settings.py in Django I got a decent understanding but there are various I want to better understand, so I'll do some more research to address those concerns. 

## References
- https://djangostars.com/blog/configuring-django-settings-best-practices/
- https://whitenoise.evans.io/en/stable/
- https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing