# Read: Class 32 - Django REST Framework & Docker

## DRF Permissions

- Permissions in REST framework are always defined as a list of permission classes.

- Before running the main body of the view each permission in the list is checked. If any permission check fails, an exceptions.PermissionDenied or exceptions.NotAuthenticated exception will be raised, and the main body of the view will not run.

- When the permission checks fail, either a "403 Forbidden" or a "401 Unauthorized" response will be returned, according to the following rules:

- The request was successfully authenticated, but permission was denied. — An HTTP 403 Forbidden response will be returned.

- The request was not successfully authenticated, and the highest priority authentication class does not use WWW-Authenticate headers. — An HTTP 403 Forbidden response will be returned.

- The request was not successfully authenticated, and the highest priority authentication class does use WWW-Authenticate headers. — An HTTP 401 Unauthorized response, with an appropriate WWW-Authenticate header will be returned.

Cited from: https://www.django-rest-framework.org/api-guide/permissions/

## Object level permissions

- REST framework permissions also support object-level permissioning. Object level permissions are used to determine if a user should be allowed to act on a particular object, which will typically be a model instance.

- Object level permissions are run by REST framework's generic views when .get_object() is called. As with view level permissions, an exceptions.PermissionDenied exception will be raised if the user is not allowed to act on the given object.

- If you're writing your own views and want to enforce object level permissions, or if you override the get_object method on a generic view, then you'll need to explicitly call the .check_object_permissions(request, obj) method on the view at the point at which you've retrieved the object.

- This will either raise a PermissionDenied or NotAuthenticated exception, or simply return if the view has the appropriate permissions.

For example:

    def get_object(self):
        obj = get_object_or_404(self.get_queryset(), pk=self.kwargs["pk"])
        self.check_object_permissions(self.request, obj)
        return obj

- For performance reasons the generic views will not automatically apply object level permissions to each instance in a queryset when returning a list of objects.

- Often when you're using object level permissions you'll also want to filter the queryset appropriately, to ensure that users only have visibility onto instances that they are permitted to view.

- Because the get_object() method is not called, object level permissions from the has_object_permission() method are not applied when creating objects. In order to restrict object creation you need to implement the permission check either in your Serializer class or override the perform_create() method of your ViewSet class.

Cited from: https://www.django-rest-framework.org/api-guide/permissions/

## Things I want to know more about

- I want to better understand why we should authorize this way. I've used auth0 in the past so I understand how to use that as opposed to using this it seems like a lot of moving parts. 

## References
- https://www.django-rest-framework.org/api-guide/permissions/
- https://codefellows.github.io/common_curriculum/prework/SQL
- https://sqlbolt.com/
