# Read: Class 36 - DSA Review

## Whiteboard Advice
- The best piece of technical interview advice I have received and can impart upon you is to communicate, communicate, communicate! This may seem like an anti-climactic piece of advice, but I hope to be able to demonstrate to you that it’s actually the most important skill to prepare prior to an interview.

- Let’s say you are in the interview and your interviewers throw you a whiteboard question. Do you step up to the whiteboard and feverishly start solving the problem?

### No!

- That tends to be everyone’s instinct, but it’s definitely not the right way to go. Even if you think you understand the problem, you should take some very important steps before moving forward.
- The interview should give you affirmation or, perhaps, your understanding is incorrect, and they will help you understand. There is no situation in which restating the problem will hurt you — it shows you can articulate a problem and gives you time to think it through a bit while you discuss. Furthermore, starting the discussion this way will help quell some nerves that might otherwise manifest while trying to solve the actual challenge.
- This is free, and you should take advantage of it. Simply ask if there are any test cases that the function should pass. Your interviewer might be expecting you to ask this question, so it might be necessary. But it’s also possible the interviewer was not expecting the question and will think “ah, this candidate knows about testing!”
- Again, you don’t actually want to start writing code in an actual language. You’ll find yourself constrained by trying to remember the methods or other idiosyncrasies of the language rather than trying to come up with the correct logic. Instead, let your interviewer know you’re going to start by writing pseudocode and fill in the actual code later.

Cited from: https://hackernoon.com/the-best-whiteboard-interview-advice-i-ever-received-3ebbfa72e4a

## 6 Tips

- Instead, wait until the interviewer is done explaining the problem. Ask any clarifying questions, and then tell your interviewer:

- “Okay, got it. If it’s okay with you, I’m just going to take a minute or two here and think about the problem, and then I’ll start talking.”  

- Shut your eyes, stare at the ceiling, scribble on the whiteboard — whatever it takes. Think through the basics of the problem, and decide on an approach. Then re-engage the interviewer, and let him know what you’ve concluded. Don’t forget to provide your reasoning!

- Even after you have an idea of how to attack the problem, don’t start writing code down. Write down the general steps of how you will solve it on one side of the whiteboard, where it’s visible but won’t get in the way. You don’t need to be verbose, just get the steps in order and somewhat readable.

Cited from: https://medium.com/@steve_45636/6-tips-to-ace-a-whiteboard-programming-interview-f06c1b378bc6

## Things I want to know more about

- Honestly this read help out a lot a made a lot of things more clear I struggle asking for assistance or asking question. I wasn't aware they want this in an interview and I spend so much time trying to figure out the correct syntax, but now I know for the pseudocode you can write in literally plain english need be just to get that code, so you understand the concept, and you can worry about syntax later when you write code you can even ask the interview for help with the syntax if it slips your mind.

## References
- https://hackernoon.com/the-best-whiteboard-interview-advice-i-ever-received-3ebbfa72e4a
- https://medium.com/@steve_45636/6-tips-to-ace-a-whiteboard-programming-interview-f06c1b378bc6
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KdXAUst8bdo