# Read: Class 38 - React 2

## Conditional Rendering

- Conditional rendering in React works the same way conditions work in JavaScript. Use JavaScript operators like if or the conditional operator to create elements representing the current state, and let React update the UI to match them.

Consider these two components:

    function UserGreeting(props) {
    return <h1>Welcome back!</h1>;
    }

    function GuestGreeting(props) {
    return <h1>Please sign up.</h1>;
    }

We’ll create a Greeting component that displays either of these components depending on whether a user is logged in:

    function Greeting(props) {
    const isLoggedIn = props.isLoggedIn;
    if (isLoggedIn) {
    return <UserGreeting />;
    }
    return <GuestGreeting />;
    }

    const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
    // Try changing to isLoggedIn={true}:
    root.render(<Greeting isLoggedIn={false} />);

### Cited from: https://reactjs.org/docs/conditional-rendering.html

## Lists & Keys

- You can build collections of elements and include them in JSX using curly braces {}.

Below, we loop through the numbers array using the JavaScript map() function.

We return a < li > element for each item. Finally, we assign the resulting array of elements to listItems:

    const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    const listItems = numbers.map((number) =>

      <li>{number}</li>
    );

Then, we can include the entire listItems array inside a < ul > element:

    <ul>{listItems}</ul>

### Cited from: https://reactjs.org/docs/lists-and-keys.html

## Forms

- In HTML, form elements such as < input >, < textarea >, and < select > typically maintain their own state and update it based on user input. In React, mutable state is typically kept in the state property of components, and only updated with setState().

- We can combine the two by making the React state be the “single source of truth”.

- Then the React component that renders a form also controls what happens in that form on subsequent user input.

- An input form element whose value is controlled by React in this way is called a “controlled component”.

For example, if we want to make the previous example log the name when it is submitted, we can write the form as a controlled component:

    class NameForm extends React.Component {
      constructor(props) {
        super(props);
        this.state = {value: ''};

        this.handleChange = this.handleChange.bind(this);
        this.handleSubmit = this.handleSubmit.bind(this);
      }

      handleChange(event) {
        this.setState({value: event.target.value});
      }

      handleSubmit(event) {
        alert('A name was submitted: ' + this.state.value);
        event.preventDefault();
      }

      render() {
        return (
          <form onSubmit={this.handleSubmit}>
            <label>
              Name:
              <input type="text" value={this.state.value} onChange={this.handleChange} />
            </label>
            <input type="submit" value="Submit" />
          </form>
        );
      }
    } -->

### Cited from: https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html

## Lifting State

- Often, several components need to reflect the same changing data. We recommend lifting the shared state up to their closest common ancestor. Let’s see how this works in action.

In this section, we will create a temperature calculator that calculates whether the water would boil at a given temperature.

We will start with a component called BoilingVerdict. It accepts the celsius temperature as a prop, and prints whether it is enough to boil the water:

    function BoilingVerdict(props) {
      if (props.celsius >= 100) {
        return <p>The water would boil.</p>;
      }
      return <p>The water would not boil.</p>;
    }

Next, we will create a component called Calculator. It renders an < input > that lets you enter the temperature, and keeps its value in this.state.temperature.

Additionally, it renders the BoilingVerdict for the current input value.

    class Calculator extends React.Component {
      constructor(props) {
        super(props);
        this.handleChange = this.handleChange.bind(this);
        this.state = {temperature: ''};
      }

      handleChange(e) {
        this.setState({temperature: e.target.value});
      }

      render() {
        const temperature = this.state.temperature;
        return (
          <fieldset>
            <legend>Enter temperature in Celsius:</legend>
            <input
              value={temperature}
              onChange={this.handleChange} />
            <BoilingVerdict
              celsius={parseFloat(temperature)} />
          </fieldset>
        );
      }
    }

Cited from: https://reactjs.org/docs/lifting-state-up.html

## Composition vs Inheritance

- Some components don’t know their children ahead of time. This is especially common for components like Sidebar or Dialog that represent generic “boxes”.

We recommend that such components use the special children prop to pass children elements directly into their output:

    function FancyBorder(props) {
      return (
        <div className={'FancyBorder FancyBorder-' + props.color}>
          {props.children}
        </div>
      );
    }

This lets other components pass arbitrary children to them by nesting the JSX:

    function WelcomeDialog() {
      return (
        <FancyBorder color="blue">
          <h1 className="Dialog-title">
            Welcome
          </h1>
          <p className="Dialog-message">
            Thank you for visiting our spacecraft!
          </p>
        </FancyBorder>
      );
    }

Anything inside the < FancyBorder > JSX tag gets passed into the FancyBorder component as a children prop. Since FancyBorder renders {props.children} inside a < div >, the passed elements appear in the final output.

While this is less common, sometimes you might need multiple “holes” in a component. In such cases you may come up with your own convention instead of using children:

    function SplitPane(props) {
      return (
        <div className="SplitPane">
          <div className="SplitPane-left">
            {props.left}
          </div>
          <div className="SplitPane-right">
            {props.right}
          </div>
        </div>
      );
    }

    function App() {
      return (
        <SplitPane
          left={
            <Contacts />
          }
          right={
            <Chat />
          } />
      );
    }

React elements like < Contacts /> and < Chat /> are just objects, so you can pass them as props like any other data. This approach may remind you of “slots” in other libraries but there are no limitations on what you can pass as props in React.

### Cited from: https://reactjs.org/docs/composition-vs-inheritance.html

## Thinking in React

- The first thing you’ll want to do is to draw boxes around every component (and subcomponent) in the mock and give them all names.

- If you’re working with a designer, they may have already done this, so go talk to them! Their Photoshop layer names may end up being the names of your React components!

- But how do you know what should be its own component? Use the same techniques for deciding if you should create a new function or object.

- One such technique is the single responsibility principle, that is, a component should ideally only do one thing. If it ends up growing, it should be decomposed into smaller subcomponents.

- Since you’re often displaying a JSON data model to a user, you’ll find that if your model was built correctly, your UI (and therefore your component structure) will map nicely.

- That’s because UI and data models tend to adhere to the same information architecture. Separate your UI into components, where each component matches one piece of your data model.

### Cited from: https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html

## Things I want to know more about

- Pretty comfortable in React but this is a lot of new features and I definitely want to know more about how they work together it's just going to take a little to understand them all.

## References

- https://reactjs.org/docs/conditional-rendering.html
- https://reactjs.org/docs/lists-and-keys.html
- https://reactjs.org/docs/forms.html
- https://reactjs.org/docs/lifting-state-up.html
- https://reactjs.org/docs/composition-vs-inheritance.html
- https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html
- https://ui.dev/classic-react
- https://heroicons.com/
