# Read: Class 28 - Django CRUD and Forms

## Template

Create the template referenced in the view (/catalog/templates/catalog/book_renew_librarian.html) and copy the code below into it:

    {% extends "base_generic.html" %}

    {% block content %}
      <h1>Renew: {{ book_instance.book.title }}</h1>
      <p>Borrower: {{ book_instance.borrower }}</p>
      <p{% if book_instance.is_overdue %} class="text-danger"{% endif %}>Due date: {{ book_instance.due_back }}</p>

      <form action="" method="post">
        {% csrf_token %}
        <table>
        {{ form.as_table }}
        </table>
        <input type="submit" value="Submit">
      </form>
    {% endblock %}



Most of this will be completely familiar from previous tutorials.

We extend the base template and then redefine the content block. We are able to reference {{ book_instance }} (and its variables) because it was passed into the context object in the render() function, and we use these to list the book title, borrower, and the original due date.

The form code is relatively simple. First, we declare the form tags, specifying where the form is to be submitted (action) and the method for submitting the data (in this case an "HTTP POST") — if you recall the HTML Forms overview at the top of the page, an empty action as shown, means that the form data will be posted back to the current URL of the page (which is what we want). Inside the tags, we define the submit input, which a user can press to submit the data. The {% csrf_token %} added just inside the form tags is part of Django's cross-site forgery protection.

All that's left is the {{ form }} template variable, which we passed to the template in the context dictionary. Perhaps unsurprisingly, when used as shown this provides the default rendering of all the form fields, including their labels, widgets, and help text — the rendering is as shown below:

    <tr>
      <th><label for="id_renewal_date">Renewal date:</label></th>
      <td>
        <input
          id="id_renewal_date"
          name="renewal_date"
          type="text"
          value="2016-11-08"
          required />
        <br />
        <span class="helptext">Enter date between now and 4 weeks (default 3 weeks).</span>
      </td>
    </tr>

If you were to enter an invalid date, you'd additionally get a list of the errors rendered on the page (see errorlist below).

    <tr>
      <th><label for="id_renewal_date">Renewal date:</label></th>
      <td>
        <ul class="errorlist">
          <li>Invalid date - renewal in past</li>
        </ul>
        <input
          id="id_renewal_date"
          name="renewal_date"
          type="text"
          value="2015-11-08"
          required />
        <br />
        <span class="helptext">Enter date between now and 4 weeks (default 3 weeks).</span>
      </td>
    </tr>


#### Cited from: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Forms

## HTML Forms

The form is defined in HTML as a collection of elements inside <form>…</form> tags, containing at least one input element of type="submit".

    <form action="/team_name_url/" method="post">
      <label for="team_name">Enter name: </label>
      <input
        id="team_name"
        type="text"
        name="name_field"
        value="Default name for team." />
      <input type="submit" value="OK" />
    </form>



- While here we just have one text field for entering the team name, a form may have any number of other input elements and their associated labels. The field's type attribute defines what sort of widget will be displayed. The name and id of the field are used to identify the field in JavaScript/CSS/HTML, while value defines the initial value for the field when it is first displayed. The matching team label is specified using the label tag (see "Enter name" above), with a for field containing the id value of the associated input.

- The submit input will be displayed as a button by default. This can be pressed to upload the data in all the other input elements in the form to the server (in this case, just the team_name field). The form attributes define the HTTP method used to send the data and the destination of the data on the server (action):

- action: The resource/URL where data is to be sent for processing when the form is submitted. If this is not set (or set to an empty string), then the form will be submitted back to the current page URL.

- method: The HTTP method used to send the data: post or get.
The POST method should always be used if the data is going to result in a change to the server's database, because it can be made more resistant to cross-site forgery request attacks.
The GET method should only be used for forms that don't change user data (for example, a search form). It is recommended for when you want to be able to bookmark or share the URL.

- The role of the server is first to render the initial form state — either containing blank fields or pre-populated with initial values. After the user presses the submit button, the server will receive the form data with values from the web browser and must validate the information. If the form contains invalid data, the server should display the form again, this time with user-entered data in "valid" fields and messages to describe the problem for the invalid fields. Once the server gets a request with all valid form data, it can perform an appropriate action (such as: saving the data, returning the result of a search, uploading a file, etc.) and then notify the user.

- As you can imagine, creating the HTML, validating the returned data, re-displaying the entered data with error reports if needed, and performing the desired operation on valid data can all take quite a lot of effort to "get right". Django makes this a lot easier by taking away some of the heavy lifting and repetitive code!

#### Cited from: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Forms

## Things I want to know more about

- There's a lot where learn right now still trying understand yesterday's assignment so this section about models, templates, html forms, views, etc. is not really clicking with me as of right now doing a lot of debugging and troubleshooting right now. 

## References
- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Forms 

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Django/Home_page 

- https://simpleisbetterthancomplex.com/series/2017/09/04/
