# Read: Class 41 - React 4

## Dynamic Routes

- In pages/posts/[id].js, we’ll write code that will render a post page — just like other pages we’ve created.

              import Layout from '../../components/layout';

              export default function Post() {
                return <Layout>...</Layout>;
              }

  Now, here’s what’s new: We’ll export an async function called getStaticPaths from this page. In this function, we need to return a list of possible values for id.

            import Layout from '../../components/layout';

            export default function Post() {
            return <Layout>...</Layout>;
            }

            export async function getStaticPaths() {
            // Return a list of possible value for id
            }

  Finally, we need to implement getStaticProps again - this time, to fetch necessary data for the blog post with a given id. getStaticProps is given params, which contains id (because the file name is [id].js).

          import Layout from '../../components/layout';

          export default function Post() {
          return <Layout>...</Layout>;
          }

          export async function getStaticPaths() {
          // Return a list of possible value for id
          }

          export async function getStaticProps({ params }) {
          // Fetch necessary data for the blog post using params.id
          }

          Create a file called [id].js inside the pages/posts directory.

  Also, remove first-post.js inside the pages/posts directory — we’ll no longer use this.
  Then, open pages/posts/[id].js in your editor and paste the following code. We’ll fill in ... later:

        import Layout from '../../components/layout';

        export default function Post() {
        return <Layout>...</Layout>;
        }

  Then, open lib/posts.js and add the following getAllPostIds function at the bottom. It will return the list of file names (excluding .md) in the posts directory:

      export function getAllPostIds() {
        const fileNames = fs.readdirSync(postsDirectory);

        // Returns an array that looks like this:
        // [
        //   {
        //     params: {
        //       id: 'ssg-ssr'
        //     }
        //   },
        //   {
        //     params: {
        //       id: 'pre-rendering'
        //     }
        //   }
        // ]
        return fileNames.map((fileName) => {
          return {
            params: {
              id: fileName.replace(/\.md$/, ''),
            },
          };
        });
        }

Finally, we'll import the getAllPostIds function and use it inside getStaticPaths. Open pages/posts/[id].js and copy the following code above the exported Post component:

    import { getAllPostIds } from '../../lib/posts';

    export async function getStaticPaths() {
      const paths = getAllPostIds();
      return {
        paths,
        fallback: false,
      };
    }

paths contains the array of known paths returned by getAllPostIds(), which include the params defined by pages/posts/[id].js. Learn more in the paths key documentation
Ignore fallback: false for now — we’ll explain that later.

We need to fetch necessary data to render the post with the given id.

To do so, open lib/posts.js again and add the following getPostData function at the bottom. It will return the post data based on id:

    export function getPostData(id) {
      const fullPath = path.join(postsDirectory, `${id}.md`);
      const fileContents = fs.readFileSync(fullPath, 'utf8');

      // Use gray-matter to parse the post metadata section
      const matterResult = matter(fileContents);

      // Combine the data with the id
      return {
        id,
        ...matterResult.data,
      };
    }

Then, open pages/posts/[id].js and replace this line:

    import { getAllPostIds } from '../../lib/posts';
    with the following code:

    import { getAllPostIds, getPostData } from '../../lib/posts';

    export async function getStaticProps({ params }) {
      const postData = getPostData(params.id);
      return {
        props: {
          postData,
        },
      };
    }

The post page is now using the getPostData function in getStaticProps to get the post data and return it as props.

Now, let's update the Post component to use postData. In pages/posts/[id].js replace the exported Post component with the following code:

    export default function Post({ postData }) {
      return (
        <Layout>
          {postData.title}
          <br />
          {postData.id}
          <br />
          {postData.date}
        </Layout>
      );
    }

### Cited from: https://nextjs.org/learn/basics/dynamic-routes

## Deployment

- Vercel is made by the creators of Next.js and has first-class support for Next.js. When you deploy your Next.js app to Vercel, the following happens by default:

- Pages that use Static Generation and assets (JS, CSS, images, fonts, etc) will automatically be served from the Vercel Edge Network, which is blazingly fast.

- Pages that use Server-Side Rendering and API routes will automatically become isolated Serverless Functions.

- This allows page rendering and API requests to scale infinitely.

Vercel has many more features, such as:

- Custom Domains: Once deployed on Vercel, you can assign a custom domain to your Next.js app. Take a look at our documentation here.

- Environment Variables: You can also set environment variables on Vercel. Take a look at our documentation here.

- You can then use those environment variables in your Next.js app.

- Automatic HTTPS: HTTPS is enabled by default (including custom domains) and doesn't require extra configuration. We auto-renew SSL certificates.

- You can learn more about the platform in the Vercel documentation.

#### Preview Deployment for Every Push

- The steps below are optional — you can try it or just read it through.

- After deploying to Vercel, try doing the following if you can:

Create a new branch on your app.
Make some changes and push to GitHub.
Create a new pull request (GitHub help page).
You should see a comment by the vercel bot on the pull request page.

- Try clicking on the Preview URL inside this comment. You should see the changes you just made.

- When you have a pull request open, Vercel automatically creates a preview deployment for that branch on every push. The preview URL will always point to the latest preview deployment.

- You can share this preview URL with your collaborators and get immediate feedback.

- If your preview deployment looks good, merge it to main. When you do this, Vercel automatically creates a production deployment.

#### Develop, Preview, Ship

- We’ve just gone through the workflow we call DPS: Develop, Preview, and Ship.

- Develop: We’ve written code in Next.js and used the Next.js development server running to take advantage of its hot reloading feature.

- Preview: We’ve pushed changes to a branch on GitHub, and Vercel created a preview deployment that’s available via a URL. We can share this preview URL with others for feedback. In addition to doing code reviews, you can do deployment previews.

- Ship: We’ve merged the pull request to main to ship to production.

- We strongly recommend using this workflow when developing Next.js apps — it will help you iterate on your app faster.

- Next.js can be deployed to any hosting provider that supports Node.js.

- If you’ve followed the instructions so far, your package.json should have the following build and start scripts:

        {
          "scripts": {
            "dev": "next",
            "build": "next build",
            "start": "next start"
          }
        }

- In your own hosting provider, run the build script once, which builds the production application in the .next folder.

        npm run build

- After building, the start script starts a Node.js server that supports hybrid pages, serving both statically generated and server-side rendered pages, and API Routes.

        npm run start

### Cited from: https://nextjs.org/learn/basics/deploying-nextjs-app

## Things I want to know more about

- I've always been interested in using vercel I'm just wondering how it is different from netlify.

## References

- https://nextjs.org/learn/basics/dynamic-routes/implement-getstaticprops

- https://nextjs.org/learn/basics/deploying-nextjs-app

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JWCS5IdECVI

- https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/static-file-serving
