# Read: Class 31- Django REST Framework & Docker

## Linux Containers

- Docker is really just Linux containers which are a type of virtualization.

- Virtualization has its roots at the beginning of computer science when large, expensive mainframe computers were the norm. How could multiple programmers use the same single machine? The answer was virtualization and specifically virtual machines which are complete copies of a computer system from the operating system on up.

- If you rent space on a cloud provider like AWS they are typically not providing you with a dedicated piece of hardware. Instead you are probably sharing a physical server with hundreds or even thousands of other clients.

- What’s the downside to a virtual machine? Size and speed. A typical guest operating system can easily take up 700MB of size. So if one physical server supports three virtual machines, that’s at least 2.1GB of disk space taken up along with separate needs for CPU and memory resources.

- Most computers rely on the same Linux operating system, so what if we virtualized from that level up instead? Wouldn’t that provide a lightweight, faster way to duplicate much of the same functionality?

- The answer is yes. And in recent years Linux containers, also known as “containerization,” has become increasingly popular. For most applications, a virtual machine provides far more resources than are needed and a container is more than sufficient.

- This, fundamentally, is what Docker is. A way to implement Linux containers!

- An analogy we can use here is that of homes and apartments. Virtual Machines are like homes: stand-alone buildings with their own infrastructure including plumbing and heating, as well as a kitchen, bathrooms, bedrooms, and so on. Docker containers are like apartments: they share common infrastructure like plumbing and heating, but come in various sizes that match the exact needs of an owner.

#### Cited from: https://wsvincent.com/beginners-guide-to-docker/

## Containers vs Virtual Environments

- If you are a Python programmer (like me) a common question at this point is, what about virtual environments? How do they differ from containers?

- Virtual environments are used to isolate Python software packages locally. We can create an isolated box for individual projects so one can use Python 2.7 and Django 1.5 while another can use Python 3.5 and Django 2.1 on the same computer. Virtual environments are great.

- But…virtual environments can only isolate Python packages. They still rely on a global, system-level installation of Python albeit they can refer to the proper version. So when we use Python 2.7 in a project, we’re pointing to an installation of Python 2.7 on the computer itself, not actually within the virtual environment.

- Also, we can’t run a production database or other services within virtual environments so compared to Docker containers they are far more limited.

Cited from: https://wsvincent.com/beginners-guide-to-docker/

## Traditional Django

- Tests are a vital part of writing software and we should add them now before moving on to the API portion of this project. We want to be sure that the Book model works as expected as well as our view, urls, and template. Our books app already has an empty books/tests.py file that we can use for this.

    # books/tests.py
    from django.test import TestCase
    from django.urls import reverse
    
    from .models import Book
    
    
    class BookTests(TestCase):
        @classmethod
        def setUpTestData(cls):
            cls.book = Book.objects.create(
                title="A good title",
                subtitle="An excellent subtitle",
                author="Tom Christie",
                isbn="1234567890123",
            )
    
        def test_book_content(self):
            self.assertEqual(self.book.title, "A good title")
            self.assertEqual(self.book.subtitle, "An excellent subtitle")
            self.assertEqual(self.book.author, "Tom Christie")
            self.assertEqual(self.book.isbn, "1234567890123")
    
        def test_book_listview(self):
            response = self.client.get(reverse("home"))
            self.assertEqual(response.status_code, 200)
            self.assertContains(response, "excellent subtitle")
            self.assertTemplateUsed(response, "books/book_list.html")
- At the top of the file we import Django’s TestCase class, reverse so we can confirm the named URL used, and our single model Book.

- Then we create a class called BookTests and fill setUpTestData with dummy information for a book. All tests must start with the name test_ in order to be run by Django so we create one to test the book’s content, test_book_content, that performs an assertEqual on each field. Next we test our listview with test_book_listview that checks the response uses the named URL "home", it returns an HTTP Status Code of 200, contains the expected text, and uses our template at books/book_list.html.

- Make sure the local server is not running and then use the shell command python manage.py test to execute the tests.

        (.venv) > python manage.py test
        Creating test database for alias 'default'...
        System check identified no issues (0 silenced).
        ..
        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Ran 2 tests in 0.007s
        
        OK
        Destroying test database for alias 'default'...

Cited from: https://djangoforapis.com/library-website-and-api/ 

## Things I want to know more about

- I gained a deeper understanding of dockers purpose and how its a virtualization/ linux container that allows us to have virtual computer on our system. 

## References
- https://wsvincent.com/beginners-guide-to-docker/
- https://djangoforapis.com/library-website-and-api/
