# *Readings: Topic

## Classes and Objects

Object are important because we use these to places our variables and functions into a single entity.

Classes are important because we use these to give object their variables and functions.

Example of Class:

    class MyClass:
        variable = "blah"

        def function(self):
            print("This is a message inside the class.")

Example of how to create multiple Objects:

      class MyClass:
        variable = "blah"

        def function(self):
            print("This is a message inside the class.")

            myobjectx = MyClass()
            myobjecty = MyClass()

            myobjecty.variable = "yackity"

            # Then print out both values
            print(myobjectx.variable)
            print(myobjecty.variable)

The __init__() function, is a special function that is called when the class is being initiated. It's used for assigning values in a class.

    class NumberHolder:

      def __init__(self, number):
          self.number = number

## Thinking Recursively

A recursive function is a function defined in terms of itself via self-referential expressions.

This means that the function will continue to call itself and repeat its behavior until some condition is met to return a result. All recursive functions share a common structure made up of two parts: base case and recursive case.

---

The algorithm for iterative present delivery implemented in Python:

houses = ["Eric's house", "Kenny's house", "Kyle's house", "Stan's house"]

def deliver_presents_iteratively():
    for house in houses:
        print("Delivering presents to", house)
 
>>> deliver_presents_iteratively()
Delivering presents to Eric's house
Delivering presents to Kenny's house
Delivering presents to Kyle's house
Delivering presents to Stan's house

This is the typical structure of a recursive algorithm. If the current problem represents a simple case, solve it. If not, divide it into subproblems and apply the same strategy to them.

The algorithm for recursive present delivery implemented in Python:

houses = ["Eric's house", "Kenny's house", "Kyle's house", "Stan's house"]

---
def deliver_presents_recursively(houses):
    # Worker elf doing his work
    if len(houses) == 1:
        house = houses[0]
        print("Delivering presents to", house)

    # Manager elf doing his work
    else:
        mid = len(houses) // 2
        first_half = houses[:mid]
        second_half = houses[mid:]

        # Divides his work among two elves
        deliver_presents_recursively(first_half)
        deliver_presents_recursively(second_half)

  >>> deliver_presents_recursively(houses)
  Delivering presents to Eric's house
  Delivering presents to Kenny's house
  Delivering presents to Kyle's house
  Delivering presents to Stan's house

## REFERENCES

<https://www.learnpython.org/en/Classes_and_Objects>
<https://realpython.com/python-thinking-recursively/>
<https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/explanation/fixtures.html>
<https://www.linuxjournal.com/content/python-testing-pytest-fixtures-and-coverage>
