# *Read: 15 - Psychological Safety*

I prefer a team where we want to work together or bounce off each other rather than one person be the leader or everybody is fighting for the top spot or control of the group. I believe everyone has different strengths and its great to blend all those strengths into one rather than try to out do each other. I know when it's my time to talk or maybe a certain section is my strong suit but if I know someone is better than me in certain section I would rather let them lead in that part for the betterment of the whole. I enjoy being apart of a team where everyone feels comfortable throwing out ideas even if it seems crazy at the time it could possibly lead to something that makes our project standout above the rest. Hostility in a group is only going to cripple the team. I'm always polite and respectful of others opinions and ideas because I would like the same. I agree working as a team works well. Problems that would take me countless hours are so quickly solved when I have others to examine it and vice versa. I feel it's much more easy to focus on the concept as a whole and actually execute the set plan when working as a team. Working alone leads to so many issues in my experience. Commutation is key always. Creating an environment where there is open communication always leads to great things. I like to throw out ideas just to get the ball rolling but if someones idea is better or something that is within the teams skill set I would much rather go with their idea. I agree having a team full of individuals and everyone is only focused on their own agenda rather than the betterment of the whole team drags the whole team down. Having full trust in every member of your team will help them perform their best rather than having constant doubt. 
