# *Read: 10 - Debugging*

## What Went Wrong? Troubleshooting JavaScript.

1.Name some key differences between a Syntax Error and a Logic Error. Syntax errors: These are spelling errors in your code that actually cause the program not to run at all, or stop working part way through — you will usually be provided with some error messages too. These are usually okay to fix, as long as you are familiar with the right tools and know what the error messages mean!
Logic errors: These are errors where the syntax is actually correct but the code is not what you intended it to be, meaning that program runs successfully but gives incorrect results. These are often harder to fix than syntax errors, as there usually isn't an error message to direct you to the source of the error.

2.List a few types of errors that you have encountered in past lab assignments and explain how you were able to correct them. May of the errors I've encountered have been because of typos or writing my code in the wrong order. 

3.How will this topic continue to influence your long term goals? I've done so much troubleshooting I'm still in the learning process so I know I'll run into a lot of mistakes in my future all I can do is continue to keep learning from them.

## The JavaScript Debugger.

1.How would you describe the JavaScript Debugger tool and how it works to someone just starting out in software development? The JavaScript debugger allows you to watch the value of variables and set breakpoints, places in your code that you want to pause execution and identify the problems that prevent your code from executing properly.

2.Define what a breakpoint is. Breakpoints, lists the breakpoints set on the page. In example.js, a breakpoint has been set on the statement listItems.push(inputNewItem.value).

3.What is the call stack? The Call stack section shows you what code was executed to get to the current line. You can see that the code is in the function that handles a mouse click, and that the code is currently paused on the breakpoint.

## Reference 
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/What_are_browser_developer_tools#the_javascript_debugger
